FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Contact:
Chris Carrico
Urge Public  Relations
chris@urgepr.com
213-848-8743

Been a casualty of the browser  wars? The Web Standards Project wants to
share  your "war story" with browser makers

New York, NY - October 7, 1998 -  The Web Standards Project (WSP)
http://www.webstandards.org, an  international coalition of leading Web
developers, announced today that they're  collecting "war stories" about
the effect of the current patchwork  support for standards by Web browsers.

Web developers and Web users are invited to share their "war story" at
http://www.webstandards.org/warstories. WSP will use these stories as case
studies about the  real-world problems caused by the current patchwork
support for Web  standards. WSP's first case study, of
http://www.thevisitor.com, shows the typical frustrations of Web developers
who try use advanced-but incompatible-features being promoted by Netscape
and  Microsoft (see attached case study).

"Web developers and Web users have become casualties in  the browser wars,"
said George Olsen, WSP Project Leader and Design  Director/Web Architect at
Los Angeles-based 2-Lane Media.

"Browser  makers have asked us what problems are being caused by their lack
of support for  standards-and we intend to tell them. Not only the specific
technical problems,  but also the financial and human costs," he said. "For
developers it's  frustrating to waste time working around incompatibilities
when we could be  spending that time and effort making better content for
those sites," Olsen continues. For people who are paying for sites,
incompatibilities are costing  them extreme amounts of money for the extra
development time. As for people  using the Web, these incompatibilities
mean running into pages that won't work  on their particular browser, if
the developer didn't know enough or wasn't  careful enough to do all the
necessary workarounds.

WSP, which is urging  browser makers to fully support standards created by
the World Wide Web  Consortium, estimates compensating for the lack of
consistent support for  standards adds about 25 percent to the cost of
building a Web site. The lack of  standards also threatens to fragment the
Web as browsers move the  desktop.

This effort complements an effort, jointly announced by WSP and The Open
Group, to document specific technical problems that plague our society.
The two will be working together on a variety of activities intended to
encourage browser makers to support Web standards. Among these efforts, WSP
will  help The Open Group with its efforts to develop test suites that will
check how  well browsers comply with Web standards, and WSP will be
publicizing the results  of these tests.

About The Web Standards  Project:
WSP is an international coalition of Web developers and Web  experts who
are urging browser makers to fully support Cascading Style Sheet  Level 1
(CSS-1), the Document Object Model (DOM) and XML in their browsers. Its
effort to bring attention to the existing and potential problems involved
with  browser incompatibility does not mean that WSP is opposed to
innovations by  browser manufacturers. The coalition merely urges browser
manufacturers to use  open standards for enhancements and support existing
ones before adding new  features.

- ### -

 For more information about The Web Standards Project contact, George
Olsen golsen@2lm.com (310-473-3706 x2225), WSP Project Leader, and Design
Director/Web Architect at 2-Lane Media.
WSP Browser Incompatibilities Case Study: The Visitor.com

The Visitor.com site uses "Dynamic HTML," which is  not a standard but
rather a buzzword used by browser makers to refer to a  collection of
techniques using Cascading Style Sheet Level 1 (CSS-1), the  Document
Object Model (DOM) and scripting languages, such as JavaScript and
JScript. Unfortunately, the incompatible support for the standards
involved,  meant that <tag> media, now Razorfish Los Angeles, had to create
four  versions of the site to avoid excluding potential visitors: Netscape
Navigator  4.0, Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.0, a version for earlier
browsers, and  another for WebTV. (The first three were produced by  <tag>.)

Richard Titus, currently with Razorfish Los Angeles, estimates that
multiple  versions increased the development costs by a third. "We tend to
push the  envelope quite a bit both in terms of layout and in terms of
functionality.  Which result in higher man-hour cost," he said. "I should
also note  that we have a tendency to do a lot more graceful decomposition
on our sites  than most developers and that requires a ton more work
because you have to  support numerous browsers."

Developer, Robert Smith, said that  multiple versions, meant extra
developers were needed. "Two people handled  the primary version (for
Netscape), one person adapted that to Internet Explorer  and another made
the crippled version for earlier browsers," he  said.

Programmer, Eric Canale, said that the development team's biggest  problems
stemmed from the inconsistencies in the way different browsers handled
DOM-issues and differences between Netscape's JavaScript and Microsoft's
JScript. These differences were also inconsistent between different
versions of  a particular browser and even among the same browser running
on different  platforms, he said. "Sometimes Netscape 4.0 Javascript code
that worked  fine on PCs would hang [on] a Mac," he said.

These developers also  faced numerous challenges to due inconsistent
handling of positioning elements  with Cascading Style Sheets. Canale said
that the project convinced him that  using Dynamic HTML doesn't pay. "The
three versions of the site we did  in-house doubled our production time,
since a lot had to be recreated >from  scratch or seriously debugged," he
said. "The site looked great but  cost a fortune to produce."

- ### -

About The Visitor.com case  study:
For more information about the browser incompatibilities  experienced by
the development team, contact:

Richard Titus, Managing Director of Razorfish Los  Angeles
rxdxt@razorfish.com
310-581-3616

Eric Canale, currently  Chief Technology Office for Centropolis Interactive
ericc@centropolis.com
310-244-3948

Robert Smith, currently "Fixer" with the Hollywood Stock Exchange
fixer@hsx.com
310-458-1029


