WSP URGES NETSCAPE TO INCLUDE STANDARDS-FRIENDLY LAYOUT ENGINE INTO NAVIGATOR 5.0

The Web Standards Project, an international coalition of leading Web
developers and Web experts, today launched a public campaign to encourage
Netscape to make sure its next version of Navigator includes software that
would reportedly make the browser 100 percent compliant with two major Web standards.

WSP is gathering signatures from Web developers and the Web-using public,
via its site <http://www.webstandards.org>, urging Netscape to include its
NGLayout engine, which is currently under development, in Navigator 5.0.

The layout engine takes HTML and other code describing a Web page's
appearance and converts it into what the user actually sees. Currently,
layout engines in both Navigator and Microsoft's Internet Explorer fail to
fully support standards created by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) and
other standards bodies. The resulting incompatibilities among various
browsers add at least 25 percent to the cost of building sites and threaten
to fragment the Web.

"With NGLayout, Netscape has the opportunity to take the lead in resolving
many of the problems that have plagued Web development. We'd like to see
that happen sooner rather than later," said George Olsen, WSP Project
Leader, and Design Director/Web Architect at 2-Lane Media
<http://www.2lm.com> in Los Angeles.

Netscape officials have pledged NGLayout will fully support the standards
for Document Object Model (DOM) and Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) level 1
and also support features of the CSS level 2 standard.

WSP has been urging browser makers to fully support these core standards -
as well as others, such as XML - developed by the W3C and other standards
bodies.

CSS gives control over the appearance of many pages at once, from the
typography to the behavior of links, as well as precise control over page
layout. DOM lets developers use scripting languages, such as ECMAScript
(née JavaScript), to manipulate text, images and other parts of Web pages;
for instance, dynamically changing their appearance over time, or moving
them around inside the browser window.

However, Netscape officials have said that current plans won't include
NGLayout in Navigator 5.0, scheduled for release later this year.

"It's unfortunate, because the promise of a layout engine that complies
with these key Web standards opens up exciting possibilities for developers
being able to make more dynamic and compelling content without having to
build multiple versions of a site," Olsen said.

The "I Want My NGLayout!" campaign is intended to let Netscape know that
Web developers and the Web-using public believe full support for these
standards by browsers is crucial for the evolution of the Web.

"We're hoping to build a groundswell of support, enough to make Netscape
sit up and listen," said Jeffrey Zeldman, WSP Site Designer and New
York-based Web designer <http://www.zeldman.com/>.

Zeldman pointed out that Netscape has lagged behind in implementing
standards, so it would be in their competitive interest to get NGLayout
into Navigator 5.0.

"Unfortunately, in the heat of competition, companies can lose sight of
where their true interests lie," he said. "But if enough developers and
users support this effort, then Netscape may realize they could regain the
lead by doing the right thing."

WSP Steering Committee member Dan Shafer has also publicly called on
Netscape to include NGLayout.

"Netscape must not ship a 5.0 browser without NGLayout," Shafer said in the
Sept. 17 issue of his e-mail newsletter, "Dan Shafer: For What It's Worth.
"My advice to Netscape: pull out all the stops. Put your entire engineering
resource--or at least as much of it as can make a reasonable
contribution--behind finishing and integrating NGLayout. Nothing else you
can do will have the long-term impact on your company and its success."

- 30 -

George Olsen                                     mailto:golsen@2lm.com
Design Director/Web Architect                       http://www.2lm.com
2-Lane Media                                   tel: 310/473-3706 x2225


