FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
  
Contact:
Chris Carrico                                        George Olsen
Urge Public Relations                                2-Lane Media
chris@urgepr.com                                     golsen@2lm.com 
213-848-8743                                         310-473-3706 x2225



WSP RELEASES LIST OF OPERA TOP 10 PROBLEMS WITH KEY WEB STANDARD

February 3, 1999 -- Despite a late, but ambitious first attempt
at implementing the Cascading Style Sheet (CSS-1) standard, Opera
Software's Opera 3.51 browsers still needs to fix some major
problems, according to a report
<http://www.webstandards.org/css/opera/> released today by the
Web Standards Project.

The report is the second in a series of browser reviews by WSP,
an international coalition of Web developers who are urging
browser makers to fully support standards developed by the World
Wide Web Consortium.

"Cascading Style Sheets give developers precise control over the
appearance of a page that we've been waiting for," said George
Olsen, WSP Project Leader and Design Director at 2-Lane Media
<http://www.2lm.com> in Los Angeles.

"Unfortunately, Web browsers' uneven support for Cascading Style
Sheets over the past two years has made it impractical for many
developers to actually use it," Olsen said. "While Opera offers
better support for this standard than the 4.0 browsers from
Netscape and Microsoft, there are still some serious problems. We
hope Opera will make it a priority to fix the problems so that
they fully support this standard and make it usable for
developers."

Many of the specific problems that Opera needs to address involve
issues with laying out elements of a Web page and handling
typographic styles correctly.

While Opera Software did fix a few of the most glaring problems
between in its Opera 3.51 update, some major bugs remain.

WSP also believes this illustrates the danger of releasing a
browser without complete testing - since many users will likely
continue to use the older version and consequently developers may
need to support an additional set of workarounds.


About The Web Standards Project: WSP is an international
coalition of Web developers and Web experts who are urging
browser makers to fully support Cascading Style Sheet Level 1
(CSS-1), the Document Object Model (DOM) and XML in their
browsers. Its effort to bring attention to the existing and
potential problems involved with browser incompatibility does not
mean that WSP is opposed to innovations by browser manufacturers.
The coalition merely urges browser manufacturers to use open
standards for enhancements and support existing ones before
adding new features


George Olsen                                    
mailto:golsen@2lm.com Design Director                            
        http://www.2lm.com 2-Lane Media                          
        tel: 310/473-3706 x2225

