For Immediate Release

More information:


George Olsen                                     mailto:golsen@2lm.com         
Design Director/Web Architect                       http://www.2lm.com
2-Lane Media                                   tel: 310/473-3706 x2225


WEB STANDARDS PROJECT CALLS ON MICROSOFT TO FULLY SUPPORT
STANDARDS IN NEXT VERSION OF THEIR INTERNET EXPLORER BROWSER

The Web Standards Project (WSP) today called on Microsoft to
fully support key Web standards in its next release of Internet
Explorer -- and presented Microsoft with a petition signed by
more than 1,000 Web developers from Fortune 500 companies and
major educational and government institutions.

"In the past, Internet Explorer was the leader in standards
support," said WSP Project Leader George Olsen. "Unfortunately
Microsoft now appears noncommittal about implementing key Web
standards: those forming the foundation for the future of the
Web."

"In contrast, Netscape has promised full support for these
standards in their upcoming Navigator 5.0 browsers, and so far
appears headed toward fulfilling that commitment -- although
they've yet to get their browser out the door," Olsen said.

Unfortunately, unless both browsers support these standards, some
of which are well over two years old, they will remain a missed
opportunity for eliminating browser incompatibilities that are
plaguing those who own, build and visit Web sites -- similar to
the problems posed by the current dispute over instant messaging
standards.

These problems include: 

* adding 25 percent to the cost of building sites due to
workarounds and extra debugging

* preventing sites from using advanced features that would
provide a richer and more useful experience for site visitors

* threatening to fragment the Web, especially as browsers move
beyond the desktop

"The current fight between AOL and Microsoft over instant
messaging shows how the public loses when companies produce
similar but incompatible products," Olsen said. "The same
ridiculous situation exists for browsing the Web because browser
makers have failed to implement the common set of standards. If
Microsoft wants to argue that common standards are needed for
instant messaging, they should be prepared to implement existing
Web standards in their browser."

To stress how eager Web professionals are for standards support,
WSP presented Microsoft with a Web standards petition signed by
more than 1,000 Web developers from Fortune 500 companies and
major educational and government institutions.

The petition drive took place at two recent Web development
conferences: Web Design '99 in Atlanta and Web Design World '99
in Seattle, both produced by Thunder Lizard Productions.

"Our attendees are sick and tired of jumping through
compatibility hoops," said Conference Chair Jim Heid, who helped
spearhead the drive. "They want to know when browser vendors are
going to support standards."

The petitions are the first step in a campaign by WSP asking Web
site owners, developers and visitors to call Microsoft to fully
support key Web standards in its next release of Internet
Explorer. (See related press release: "Web Standards Project
calls on public to pressure Microsoft to fully support Web
standards in their browser.")

"If Microsoft intends to not implement these standards, then they
have a responsibility to make the public aware of that fact.
Developers need to let their clients and site visitors know that
standards-compliant sites may not display properly on Internet
Explorer," Olsen said.


ABOUT THE WEB STANDARDS PROJECT WSP <http://www.webstandards.org>
is an international coalition of Web developers and Web experts
who are urging browser makers to fully support HTML 4.0,
Cascading Style Sheet Level 1 (CSS-1), the Document Object Model
(DOM) and XML in their browsers. Its effort to bring attention to
the existing and potential problems involved with browser
incompatibility doesn't mean that WSP is opposed to innovations
by browser makers. The coalition merely urges browser makers to
use open standards for enhancements and support existing ones
before adding new features.

ABOUT WEB DESIGN '99 AND WEB DESIGN WORLD '99 These conferences
for Web design and development professionals encompass several
days of intensive, how-to sessions on all aspects of Web design
and development. For more information contact Jim Heid,
Conference Chair, (707) 937-1747, <mailto:jim@heidsite.com>

