For Immediate Release


Contact:
Stauch, Vetromile & Mitchell PR
(401) 438-0614
scarroll@svmmarcom.com / martha@svmmarcom.com
PR contact for The Open Group

Mr. Shane McCarron
Program Manager for Network Computing
The Open Group
(612) 434-4431
Shane@themacs.com

Chris Carrico
Urge Public Relations
213-848-8743
chris@urgepr.com
PR contact for the Web Standards Project


THE OPEN GROUP AND WEB STANDARDS PROJECT COLLABORATE TO ENSURE SUPPORT FOR
STANDARDS ON THE WORLD WIDE WEB

Development of test suite enhances effort to develop web browser standards

New York, New York - October 7, 1998 - The Open Group and the Web Standards
Project (WSP), today participated in a joint announcement to endorse the
WSP's goals and to announce a variety of new activities targeted at helping
the industry realize their many common goals.

During the course of this event, The Open Group and the Web Standards
Project announced the following:

* The public availability of an unrestricted access test suite to evaluate
web browsers against the W3C's HTML 3.2 recommendation
(http://www.opengroup.org/browsertest).  The Web Standards Project will use
the test suite to check web browsers for conformance to standards, and to
publicize the results of this testing.

* The development of tests for the W3C's HTML 4.0 recommendation and to
extend the W3C's tests for their Cascading Style Sheets (issue 1)
specification. The Open Group is inviting the industry to help by reviewing
the tests as they are developed. This open process will help ensure that
these tests are as comprehensive and accurate as possible, and ultimately,
that browsers support the standards correctly. The WSP will evaluate the
test tools against various implementations and share those results with The
Open Group and the industry.

* The launch of a formal effort within The Open Group to work with web
content providers, determining their requirements for the evolution of
browser support for standards. The WSP and its members are a key part of
this requirements and specification development effort. The Open Group
expects to make a major announcement about a broad program to deliver on
these requirements for end users, content developers, tool developers, and
browser vendors in the very near future.


James DeRaeve, Director of Testing for The Open Group, said "The promise of
the web is that through the use of agreed industry standards, web content
can be accessed by users from any browser on any platform. The Web
Standards Project and The Open Group have recognized that the lack of
consistent support for these essential standards across all browsers
creates unnecessary cost and usability barriers. While we encourage and
support the efforts of the browser vendors to deliver leading edge
functionality to their customers, both web content developers and users
suffer if browsers don't support the basic web standards in similar ways.

George Olsen, Project Leader for The Web Standards Project, says that the
collaborative effort builds on each group's strengths. "The Open Group
reaches a broad range of top IT professionals, while The Web Standards
Project has been a grassroots effort among leading web developers and Web
experts," he said. "Now we can work together toward getting browser makers
to eliminate incompatibilities that add an extra 25 percent to the cost of
web development and threaten to fragment the Web. As The Open Group has
pointed out, unless browsers fully support web standards, these problems
will worsen as browser move beyond the desktop into televisions, PDAs and
device we haven't thought of yet."

"The Open Group is pleased to be able to work with the Web Standards
Project and the industry to drive toward agreement on how web standards
should be implemented and relied upon to make web content portability and
Open Systems a reality," said Shane P. McCarron, Program Manager for
Network Computing at The Open Group.

The detailed information collected by The Open Group's test suites
complements an effort announced today by The Web Standards Project to
gather case studies about the extra development costs that result from web
developers having to deal with browser incompatibilities.

About The Open Group:
The Open Group is a vendor-neutral, international consortium of over 200
members with combined IT budgets in excess of $55 billion annually. It has
been the technology industry's flagship specifications, testing and
branding organization for over a decade and established many of the open
technologies on which billions of dollars of IT systems rely today. The
Open Group is working with suppliers and users establishing
interoperability requirements across existing multiple platforms, today's
new Internet-based technologies, and looking to tomorrow's investment
decisions. Its mission is to facilitate a potential IT DialTone
infrastructure - working with standards organizations and suppliers on open
Internet and existing legacy infrastructure specifications.

Formed in February 1996 by merging X/Open Company Ltd. and the Open
Software Foundation, the company's eight sponsors are Compaq Computer
Corporation, Hewlett-Packard Company, Siemens-Nixdorf Informationssysteme
AG, Fujitsu Ltd, Hitachi Ltd, International Business Machines Corporation,
NCR Corporation, and Sun Microsystems Inc. The Open Group can be reached at
www.opengroup.org.
Note: UNIX and the X Device are registered trademarks, and IT DialTone and
The Open Group are trademarks of The Open Group in the United States and
other countries.

About the WSP:
The Web Standards Project is an international coalition of leader Web
developers and Web experts, who are urging browser makers to fully support
standards created by the World Wide Web Consortium. Since its launch in
August 1998, WSP has gained more than 4,800 members-developers large and
smaller-as well as endorsements from several leading professional
organizations for Web developers, including the Association for Internet
Professionals and the HTML Writers Guild.

